# [Throwdown](https://kadauber.scripts.mit.edu/throwdown)
> Note: This project is the second iteration of [wondr-buildr](https://kadauber.scripts.mit.edu/wondr-buildr). The source code for wondr-buildr can be found [here in my Github](http://github.com/kadauber/wondr-buildr).

## About *Genius: The Transgression*
My friends and I love the tabletop role-playing game (think Dungeons & Dragons) [*Genius: The Transgression*](https://sites.google.com/site/moochava/genius). In this game, everyone plays as a mad scientist and goes around trying to carry out their nefarious plots. One of the primary mechanics *Genius* is the creation of "wonders" of mad science, which are machines, organisms, and other creations that break the laws of reality. We like to keep track of the wonders that exist, so I made wondr-buildr as a minimal interface for keeping track of them. 
## What's a "Wonder"?
In short, wonders are creations of mad science such as mind readers, teleporters, death rays, and other reality-breaking machines. The basic qualities of a wonder are its name, owner, "axiom," and "rank." The axiom places the wonder in a class of effects, such as destruction for Katastrofi, transformation for Metaptropi, or control for Epikrato. The rank describes the difficulty of building the wonder. For example, an Exelixi (restoration) wonder of rank 1 can only heal, whereas an Exelixi 5 wonder can bring back the long dead. These types of wonders are clearly defined in the rulebook. One of the reasons I switched to developing this project instead of wondr-buildr was to build a more robust database definition of a "wonder."
## What's this, then?
The main purpose of this project is to create a robust definition of a "wonder" based on the complex descriptions in [the rulebook](https://aec352ff-a-62cb3a1a-s-sites.googlegroups.com/site/moochava/genius/GeniusTheTransgressionv1.1.pdf?attachauth=ANoY7cp2dS0iNZid7VOrUKRPrDBXl0b4TqbAJhWiOegHCr20JPZHfn6v6vY81j6BwV82nNclKXmIwJz9kxunZeaaIVXBL75kaTs1KiDFD_x1-QjfSYA0MwbflrX3M82deDuzQqdM0inQJdMh4eyqkrHb1h-nbITByNL83UYVo1nfLHBtXg3vFO7-GcaqSarsIRaRcytGff-9x1vCRfZynln4Y4Uodhv2a582Tou6yk45-acrS7HcpZI%3D&attredirects=0). It was both an exercise for myself in designing a complex data structure and a means for myself and my friends to have more fun with our game. 
Most of interface to the data structure itself is not implemented, but the bulk of the wonder definition is available [here in my Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BzAw4KPG5QlSUGo1cnI4dFhuV1E). Every kind of wonder that can possibly be created is listed by axiom and rank in ["Wonder Types"](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1hEV8b9fTbPrmfo7CBuJiuz0MalfL9xkJnt_IJebY3pA). Wonders of all axioms except Automata can have associated "general variables," which can apply to a variable of any axiom, and "axiom variables," which can only apply to wonders of their own axiom. Each "instance" of a variable taken needs to have some amount of information associated with it, so I categorized each variable based on what it requires in ["General Variable Categories"](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1xMHycBVlTud1YXRW00MBTlVmC_wC2JOZCK3kXSNO7r8) and ["Axiom Variable Categories."](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10mVYAAZNRGNpi6sPcKV1vl2NOeA6NSqfLntmPLOrj8I). Automata does not use variables and is more complex than the other axioms; a separate document, ["Full Definition of Automata,"](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JFvmfLTDwH1gbZHe-PXCsuo0FLOuTU5kFb-j19-s5S0) was necessary.

My ultimate objective for this project is to allow us to create wonders quickly and easily by taking care of the complexity behind the scenes. This will hopefully permit fast prototyping. The app is called "Throwdown" because I intend to ask my friends to make several wonders apiece using the app, then use what they create in a one-off session in which they fight one another in a "throwdown" using the wonders they've made. 

*Update: Since learning that Google Docs are not universally acceptable, I've moved my documentation into markdown files in this repository.*
